README.rst, before:

PyAnsys Tools Versioning
========================
|pyansys| |python| |pypi| |GH-CI| |codecov| |MIT| |black| |pre-commit|

.. |pyansys| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Py-Ansys-ffc107.svg?logo=data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABAAAAAQCAIAAACQkWg2AAABDklEQVQ4jWNgoDfg5mD8vE7q/3bpVyskbW0sMRUwofHD7Dh5OBkZGBgW7/3W2tZpa2tLQEOyOzeEsfumlK2tbVpaGj4N6jIs1lpsDAwMJ278sveMY2BgCA0NFRISwqkhyQ1q/Nyd3zg4OBgYGNjZ2ePi4rB5loGBhZnhxTLJ/9ulv26Q4uVk1NXV/f///////69du4Zdg78lx//t0v+3S88rFISInD59GqIH2esIJ8G9O2/XVwhjzpw5EAam1xkkBJn/bJX+v1365hxxuCAfH9+3b9/+////48cPuNehNsS7cDEzMTAwMMzb+Q2u4dOnT2vWrMHu9ZtzxP9vl/69RVpCkBlZ3N7enoDXBwEAAA+YYitOilMVAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC
   :target: https://docs.pyansys.com/
   :alt: PyAnsys

.. |python| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pyansys-tools-versioning?logo=pypi
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/pyansys-tools-versioning
   :alt: Python

.. |pypi| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pyansys-tools-versioning.svg?logo=python&logoColor=white
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/pyansys-tools-versioning
   :alt: PyPI

.. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/branch/main/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning
   :alt: Codecov

.. |GH-CI| image:: https://github.com/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml
   :alt: GH-CI

.. |MIT| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
   :alt: MIT

.. |black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=flat
   :target: https://github.com/psf/black
   :alt: Black

.. |pre-commit| image:: https://results.pre-commit.ci/badge/github/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/main.svg
   :target: https://results.pre-commit.ci/latest/github/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/main
   :alt: pre-commit.ci status

Utilities for backwards and forwards server support.


How to install
--------------

At least two installation modes are provided: user and developer.

For users
^^^^^^^^^

In order to install PyAnsys Tools Versioning, make sure you
have the latest version of `pip`_. To do so, run:

.. code:: bash

    python -m pip install -U pip

Then, you can simply execute:

.. code:: bash

    python -m pip install pyansys-tools-versioning

For developers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Installing PyAnsys Tools Versioning in developer mode allows
you to modify the source and enhance it.

Before contributing to the project, please refer to the `PyAnsys Developer's guide`_. You will 
need to follow these steps:

1. Start by cloning this repository:

    .. code:: bash

        git clone https://github.com/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning

2. Create a fresh-clean Python environment and activate it:

    .. code:: bash

        # Create a virtual environment
        python -m venv .venv

        # Activate it in a POSIX system
        source .venv/bin/activate

        # Activate it in Windows CMD environment
        .venv\Scripts\activate.bat

        # Activate it in Windows Powershell
        .venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

3. Make sure you have the latest required build system and doc, testing, and CI tools:

    .. code:: bash

        python -m pip install -U pip flit tox
        python -m pip install -r requirements/requirements_build.txt
        python -m pip install -r requirements/requirements_doc.txt
        python -m pip install -r requirements/requirements_tests.txt


4. Install the project in editable mode:

    .. code:: bash
    
        python -m pip install --editable pyansys-tools-versioning
    
    5. Finally, verify your development installation by running:

    .. code:: bash
        
        tox


How to testing
--------------

This project takes advantage of `tox`_. This tool allows to automate common
development tasks (similar to Makefile) but it is oriented towards Python
development. 

Using tox
^^^^^^^^^

As Makefile has rules, `tox`_ has environments. In fact, the tool creates its
own virtual environment so anything being tested is isolated from the project in
order to guarantee project's integrity. The following environments commands are provided:

- **tox -e style**: will check for coding style quality.
- **tox -e py**: checks for unit tests.
- **tox -e py-coverage**: checks for unit testing and code coverage.
- **tox -e doc**: checks for documentation building process.


Raw testing
^^^^^^^^^^^

If required, you can always call the style commands (`black`_, `isort`_,
`flake8`_...) or unit testing ones (`pytest`_) from the command line. However,
this does not guarantee that your project is being tested in an isolated
environment, which is the reason why tools like `tox`_ exist.


A note on pre-commit
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The style checks take advantage of `pre-commit`_. Developers are not forced but
encouraged to install this tool via:

.. code:: bash

    python -m pip install pre-commit && pre-commit install


Documentation
-------------

For building documentation, you can either run the usual rules provided in the
`Sphinx`_ Makefile, such us:

.. code:: bash

    make -C doc/ html && your_browser_name doc/html/index.html

However, the recommended way of checking documentation integrity is using:

.. code:: bash

    tox -e doc && your_browser_name .tox/doc_out/index.html


Distributing
------------

If you would like to create either source or wheel files, start by installing
the building requirements and then executing the build module:

.. code:: bash

    python -m pip install -r requirements/requirements_build.txt
    python -m build
    python -m twine check dist/*


.. LINKS AND REFERENCES
.. _black: https://github.com/psf/black
.. _flake8: https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/
.. _isort: https://github.com/PyCQA/isort
.. _pip: https://pypi.org/project/pip/
.. _pre-commit: https://pre-commit.com/
.. _PyAnsys Developer's guide: https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/
.. _pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/
.. _Sphinx: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/
.. _tox: https://tox.wiki/

Commit message:

maint: Deprecate library (#418)
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Roberto Pastor Muela <37798125+RobPasMue@users.noreply.github.com>

README.rst, after:

[DEPRECATED] PyAnsys Tools Versioning
=====================================

**This library is deprecated and will no longer be maintained. Please consider using alternatives. For more information check** 
`this issue <https://github.com/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/issues/417>`_.

|pyansys| |python| |pypi| |GH-CI| |codecov| |MIT| |black| |pre-commit|

.. |pyansys| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Py-Ansys-ffc107.svg?logo=data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABAAAAAQCAIAAACQkWg2AAABDklEQVQ4jWNgoDfg5mD8vE7q/3bpVyskbW0sMRUwofHD7Dh5OBkZGBgW7/3W2tZpa2tLQEOyOzeEsfumlK2tbVpaGj4N6jIs1lpsDAwMJ278sveMY2BgCA0NFRISwqkhyQ1q/Nyd3zg4OBgYGNjZ2ePi4rB5loGBhZnhxTLJ/9ulv26Q4uVk1NXV/f///////69du4Zdg78lx//t0v+3S88rFISInD59GqIH2esIJ8G9O2/XVwhjzpw5EAam1xkkBJn/bJX+v1365hxxuCAfH9+3b9/+////48cPuNehNsS7cDEzMTAwMMzb+Q2u4dOnT2vWrMHu9ZtzxP9vl/69RVpCkBlZ3N7enoDXBwEAAA+YYitOilMVAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC
   :target: https://docs.pyansys.com/
   :alt: PyAnsys

.. |python| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pyansys-tools-versioning?logo=pypi
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/pyansys-tools-versioning
   :alt: Python

.. |pypi| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pyansys-tools-versioning.svg?logo=python&logoColor=white
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/pyansys-tools-versioning
   :alt: PyPI

.. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/branch/main/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning
   :alt: Codecov

.. |GH-CI| image:: https://github.com/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml
   :alt: GH-CI

.. |MIT| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
   :alt: MIT

.. |black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=flat
   :target: https://github.com/psf/black
   :alt: Black

.. |pre-commit| image:: https://results.pre-commit.ci/badge/github/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/main.svg
   :target: https://results.pre-commit.ci/latest/github/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning/main
   :alt: pre-commit.ci status

Utilities for backwards and forwards server support.


How to install
--------------

At least two installation modes are provided: user and developer.

For users
^^^^^^^^^

In order to install PyAnsys Tools Versioning, make sure you
have the latest version of `pip`_. To do so, run:

.. code:: bash

    python -m pip install -U pip

Then, you can simply execute:

.. code:: bash

    python -m pip install pyansys-tools-versioning

For developers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Installing PyAnsys Tools Versioning in developer mode allows
you to modify the source and enhance it.

Before contributing to the project, please refer to the `PyAnsys Developer's guide`_. You will 
need to follow these steps:

1. Start by cloning this repository:

    .. code:: bash

        git clone https://github.com/ansys/pyansys-tools-versioning

2. Create a fresh-clean Python environment and activate it:

    .. code:: bash

        # Create a virtual environment
        python -m venv .venv

        # Activate it in a POSIX system
        source .venv/bin/activate

        # Activate it in Windows CMD environment
        .venv\Scripts\activate.bat

        # Activate it in Windows Powershell
        .venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

3. Make sure you have the latest required build system and doc, testing, and CI tools:

    .. code:: bash

        python -m pip install -U pip flit tox
        python -m pip install -r requirements/requirements_build.txt
        python -m pip install -r requirements/requirements_doc.txt
        python -m pip install -r requirements/requirements_tests.txt


4. Install the project in editable mode:

    .. code:: bash
    
        python -m pip install --editable pyansys-tools-versioning
    
    5. Finally, verify your development installation by running:

    .. code:: bash
        
        tox


How to testing
--------------

This project takes advantage of `tox`_. This tool allows to automate common
development tasks (similar to Makefile) but it is oriented towards Python
development. 

Using tox
^^^^^^^^^

As Makefile has rules, `tox`_ has environments. In fact, the tool creates its
own virtual environment so anything being tested is isolated from the project in
order to guarantee project's integrity. The following environments commands are provided:

- **tox -e style**: will check for coding style quality.
- **tox -e py**: checks for unit tests.
- **tox -e py-coverage**: checks for unit testing and code coverage.
- **tox -e doc**: checks for documentation building process.


Raw testing
^^^^^^^^^^^

If required, you can always call the style commands (`black`_, `isort`_,
`flake8`_...) or unit testing ones (`pytest`_) from the command line. However,
this does not guarantee that your project is being tested in an isolated
environment, which is the reason why tools like `tox`_ exist.


A note on pre-commit
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The style checks take advantage of `pre-commit`_. Developers are not forced but
encouraged to install this tool via:

.. code:: bash

    python -m pip install pre-commit && pre-commit install


Documentation
-------------

For building documentation, you can either run the usual rules provided in the
`Sphinx`_ Makefile, such us:

.. code:: bash

    make -C doc/ html && your_browser_name doc/html/index.html

However, the recommended way of checking documentation integrity is using:

.. code:: bash

    tox -e doc && your_browser_name .tox/doc_out/index.html


Distributing
------------

If you would like to create either source or wheel files, start by installing
the building requirements and then executing the build module:

.. code:: bash

    python -m pip install -r requirements/requirements_build.txt
    python -m build
    python -m twine check dist/*


.. LINKS AND REFERENCES
.. _black: https://github.com/psf/black
.. _flake8: https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/
.. _isort: https://github.com/PyCQA/isort
.. _pip: https://pypi.org/project/pip/
.. _pre-commit: https://pre-commit.com/
.. _PyAnsys Developer's guide: https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/
.. _pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/
.. _Sphinx: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/
.. _tox: https://tox.wiki/
